[4.0.0]docs(common)rendering changes (#1255)
telerik/blazor-docs: upgrade/rendering-changes/4-0-0.md

---
title: 4.0.0
description: Handle the rendering changes in the 4.0.0 release of the Telerik UI for Blazor components.
page_title: Rendering Changes in 4.0.0
slug: rendering-changes-in-4-0-0
position: 3
---

# Rendering Changes in 4.0.0

* [Calendar](#calendar)
* [Card](#card)
* [ChunkProgressBar](#chunkprogressbar)
* [Common - Date pickers](#common---date-pickers)
* [Common - Selects](#common-selects)
* [Dialog](#dialog)
* [Editor](#editor)
* [FileSelect](#fileselect)
* [Form](#form)
* [Gantt](#gantt)
* [Grid](#grid)
* [ListView](#listview)
* [MultiSelect](#multiselect)
* [Notification](#notification)
* [Pager](#pager)
* [ProgressBar](#progressbar)
* [Splitter](#splitter)
* [Toolbar](#toolbar)
* [TreeList](#treelist)
* [Upload](#upload)
* [Window](#upload)

## Calendar

> * Changed `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button (`<TelerikButton FillMode="@ThemeConstants.Button.FillMode.Flat">`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button (`<button class="k-button k-calendar-nav-today k-button-flat k-rounded-md k-button-md k-button-flat-primary"><span class="k-button-text">Today</span></button>`).
```

let's use the actual HTML markup that results from the change, rather than the razor markup, which is internal anyway.

## Card

* Renamed the following classes:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
|`k-card-actions-start`|`k-actions-start`|
|`k-card-actions-end`|`k-actions-end`|
|`k-card-actions-center`|`k-actions-center`|
|`k-card-actions-stretched`|`k-actions-stretched`|

## ChunkProgressBar

* Added `k-chunk-progressbar` class to the `<div class="k-progressbar>`.
* Added `k-progressbar-chunks` class to the `<ul>` element.
* Replaced the `k-item` class of the `<li>` elements with `k-progressbar-chunk` class.

## Common - Date Pickers

> * All date pickers that icorporate calendar inherit the change of the `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button (DatePicker, DateTimePicker, DateRangePicker, TimePicker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All date pickers that incorporate a calendar inherit the change of the `<span class="k-calendar-nav-today k-today">` to a flat button (DatePicker, DateTimePicker, DateRangePicker, TimePicker).
```

    </span>
````

* Added `k-grid-{size}` to the main wrapping element of the component (`<div class="k-grid">`). Necessary to introduce the [`Size` options of the Grid]({%slug compact-grid%}). The child elements inherit the `k-grid-{size}` class.

* Added Grid-specific classes added to header, body and footer tables - `k-grid-header-table`, `k-grid-table`, `k-grid-footer-table`.

* Added table-specific classes to the table elements of the Grid:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
| `<table>` | `<table class="k-table">` |
| `<thead>` | `<thead class="k-table-thead">` |
| `<tbody>` | `<tbody class="k-table-tbody">` |
| `<tfoot>` | `<tfoot class="k-table-tfoot">` |
| `<th>`  | `<th class="k-table-th">`  |
| `<tr>` |  `<tr class="k-table-row">` |
| `<td>` | `<td class="k-table-td">` |
| `<tr class="k-grouping-row">` | `<tr class="k-table-group-row">` |

### Grid Grouping

* Removed `<div class="k-indicator-container">` in favor of `<div class="k-chip>`. The Group value is now rendered in a `<span class="k-chip-content">`. The close icon is now rendered in a `<span class="k-chip-actions">` container.

> * Changed the close icon from `Icon="x"` to `Icon="x-circle"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed the close icon from `<span class="k-button-icon k-icon k-i-x"></span>` to `<span class="k-button-icon k-icon k-i-x-circle"></span>`.
```

* Replaced page numbers `<span class="k-link>` with flat primary buttons `<button class="k-button k-button-{size} k-button-flat k-button-flat-primary">`
* Removed `k-floatwrap`, `k-link`, `k-pager-wrap` and `k-label` classes.

## ProgressBar

* Added `k-progressbar-progress` class to the `<div class="k-selected>` element.
* Changed the inline style of the `<div class="k-progressbar>` from `--kendo-progressbar-progress` to `--kendo-progressbar-value`. (This style conrols the progress width/height.)

## Splitter

* Removed the `k-collapse-prev` and `k-collapse-next` classes from the `<span class="k-icon>`.

## Toolbar

* Added `k-toolbar-resizable` class to the main wrapping element of the component (`<div class="k-toolbar>`). Applicable when the Toolbar is responsive.
* Renamed `k-overflow-anchor` class to `k-toolbar-overflow-button` class.
* Added Toolbar-specific classes to all built-in tools(`k-toolbar-button`, `k-toolbar-toggle-button`, `k-toolbar-button-group` and more)
* All template items are wrapped in `<div class="k-toolbar-item">`.

> * When the Toolbar is part of the Filter component, `FilterExpression` items have a `k-toolbar-item` class. Applicable only if said item is a complex one(containing either a select/input component).

Reviewer: Do you think it might be clearer if we move this to a separate `Filter` section? This is strictly related to the Filter component and the fact it internally reuses the ToolBar(shares the markup) is an implementation detail.

## Treelist

* Wrapped sorting icon in a `<span class="k-sort-icon">`

````HTML
    <span class="k-sort-icon">
        <span class="k-icon k-i-sort-asc-small"></span>
    </span>
````
* Added `k-grid-md` class to the `<div class="k-grid>` element - this ensures the default medium size of the TreeList.

* Added table-specific classes to the table elements of the TreeList:

| Pre-4.0.0        | 4.0.0      |
|------------------|------------|
| `<table>` | `<table class="k-table">` |
| `<thead>` | `<thead class="k-table-thead">` |
| `<tbody>` | `<tbody class="k-table-tbody">` |
| `<tfoot>` | `<tfoot class="k-table-tfoot">` |
| `<th>`  | `<th class="k-table-th">`  |
| `<tr>` |  `<tr class="k-table-row">` |
| `<td>` | `<td class="k-table-td">` |

## Upload

> * Upload `button` and `input` are no longer nested but are on one level wrapped inside a `<div class="k-upload-button-wrap">`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upload `button` and `input` are no longer nested and are now siblings wrapped inside a `<div class="k-upload-button-wrap">`.
```
